Solution The scripts listed below will help you configure several of the security options on SQL Server and also run some of the checks to see if there are potential issues. Check SQL Server Audit level This will check to see what your current login audit level is set to capture. DECLARE @AuditLevel int EXEC master.dbo.xp\_instance\_regread N'HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE', N'Software\\Microsoft\\MSSQLServer\\MSSQLServer', N'AuditLevel', @AuditLevel OUTPUT SELECT CASE WHEN @AuditLevel = 0 THEN 'None' WHEN @AuditLevel = 1 THEN 'Successful logins only' WHEN @AuditLevel = 2 THEN 'Failed logins only' WHEN @AuditLevel = 3 THEN 'Both failed and successful logins' END AS \[AuditLevel\] Configure number of SQL Server logs This script will change the setting so that you stored 48 SQL Server error log archives. This will allow us to have a good amount of history from our error logs. EXEC master.dbo.xp\_instance\_regwrite N'HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE', N'Software\\Microsoft\\MSSQLServer\\MSSQLServer', N'NumErrorLogs', REG\_DWORD, 48 Read this tip if you want to configure the number error log files using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS). Refer to tip for more information about log files management and configuration. Create alert, operator and notification for the security events We will setup these components so when there is an issue we can be alerted by SQL Server. Create operator: EXEC msdb.dbo.sp\_add\_operator @name=N'NotifyDBA\_Group', @enabled=1, @email\_address=N'NotifyDBAs@company.com' Create alert for severity 14 events (these are security related errors): EXEC msdb.dbo.sp\_add\_alert @name = N'Sev. 14 Errors - Permissions', @severity = 14, @include\_event\_description\_in = 1 Create notification: EXEC msdb.dbo.sp\_add\_notification @alert\_name = N'Sev. 14 Errors - Permissions', @operator\_name = N'NotifyDBA\_Group', @notification\_method = 1 Use this tip if you prefer to configure alerts and operators using SSMS. Find failed login events in SQL Server error log This will allow us to search the SQL Server error log for failed logins. This command below will search the active SQL Server error log. EXEC master.dbo.xp\_readerrorlog 0, 1, 'login failed', null, NULL, NULL, N'desc' Refer to this tip if you want to learn more about xp\_readerrorlog extended stored procedure and it's usage as well as how to read the archived SQL Server error logs. Check that Builtin\\Administrators group removed from sysadmins role This command will check to see if the builtin administrator account has been removed. SELECT r.name as SrvRole, u.name as LoginName FROM sys.server\_role\_members m JOIN sys.server\_principals r ON m.role\_principal\_id = r.principal\_id JOIN sys.server\_principals u ON m.member\_principal\_id = u.principal\_id WHERE u.name = 'BUILTIN\\Administrators' Make sure you have read this tip before you remove BUILTIN\\Administrators login from SQL Server. Find members of the "Local Administrators" group on SQL Server If for some reason you want to keep the BUILTIN\\Administrators login you need to check who are the members of the "Local Administrators" group. Note, that you will get results from the extended procedure below only if the BUILTIN\\Administrators group exists as login on SQL Server. EXEC master.sys.xp\_logininfo 'BUILTIN\\Administrators','members' Find Sysadmins server role's members (and other server level roles) This will show all logins and what server level roles each login has been assigned. EXEC master.sys.sp\_helpsrvrolemember Refer to this tip for information about Server Roles Auditing using system views (including SQL Server 2012 user-defined server roles). Find db\_owner database role's members in each database This will give you a list of database owners for each database. EXEC master.sys.sp\_MSforeachdb ' PRINT ''?'' EXEC \[?\].dbo.sp\_helprolemember ''db\_owner''' Find logins mapped to the "dbo" user in each database This will find all users that are mapped to the dbo schema. EXEC master.sys.sp\_MSforeachdb ' PRINT ''?'' EXEC \[?\].dbo.sp\_helpuser ''dbo''' Check password policies and expiration for the SQL logins This will check whether the password policy is turn on or off. SELECT name FROM sys.sql\_logins WHERE is\_policy\_checked=0 OR is\_expiration\_checked = 0 Refer to this tip for more information about the "Enforce password policy" and the "Enforce password expiration" properties of the SQL Server Logins. This is also covered in another tip here. Check that Production and Test databases are segregated (on different SQL Servers) This will look for the value of "Test" or "Dev" in all your database names. SELECT name FROM master.sys.databases WHERE name LIKE '%Test%' OR name LIKE '%Dev%' Check that sample databases (AdventureWorks, Pubs etc.) are not present on Production SQL Servers This will check to see if these sample databases are present on your server. SELECT name FROM master.sys.databases WHERE name IN ('pubs', 'Northwind') OR name LIKE 'Adventure Works%' Verify that "sa" login has been renamed and/or disabled and has password policy/expiration enabled This will check whether the sa password exists and if it does if the password policy is turned on for this login. SELECT l.name, CASE WHEN l.name = 'sa' THEN 'NO' ELSE 'YES' END as Renamed, s.is\_policy\_checked, s.is\_expiration\_checked, l.is\_disabled FROM sys.server\_principals AS l LEFT OUTER JOIN sys.sql\_logins AS s ON s.principal\_id = l.principal\_id WHERE l.sid = 0x01 Refer to this tip for the options to make "sa" login secure. Check server configuration options This will check different server configuration settings such as: allow updates, cross db ownership chaining, clr enabled, SQL Mail XPs, Database Mail XPs, xp\_cmdshell and Ad Hoc Distributed Queries. SELECT name, value\_in\_use FROM sys.configurations WHERE configuration\_id IN (16391, 102, 400, 1562, 16386, 16385, 16390, 16393) Configuration\_id 16393 is to check if "Contained Databases Authentication" option is enabled on SQL Server 2012. There are some potential security threats associated with contained databases that DBAs have to understand. Read more here: Security Best Practices with Contained Databases. Refer also to this tip to understand better the Cross Database Ownership Chaining feature. CONNECT or other permissions granted to the "guest" user This will list what permission the guest user has. SET NOCOUNT ON CREATE TABLE #guest\_perms ( db SYSNAME, class\_desc SYSNAME, permission\_name SYSNAME, ObjectName SYSNAME NULL) EXEC master.sys.sp\_MSforeachdb 'INSERT INTO #guest\_perms SELECT ''?'' as DBName, p.class\_desc, p.permission\_name, OBJECT\_NAME (major\_id, DB\_ID(''?'')) as ObjectName FROM \[?\].sys.database\_permissions p JOIN \[?\].sys.database\_principals l ON p.grantee\_principal\_id= l.principal\_id WHERE l.name = ''guest'' AND p.\[state\] = ''G''' SELECT db AS DatabaseName, class\_desc, permission\_name, CASE WHEN class\_desc = 'DATABASE' THEN db ELSE ObjectName END as ObjectName, CASE WHEN DB\_ID(db) IN (1, 2, 4) AND permission\_name = 'CONNECT' THEN 'Default' ELSE 'Potential Problem!' END as CheckStatus FROM #guest\_perms DROP TABLE #guest\_perms Guest user by default has CONNECT permissions to the master, msdb and tempdb databases. Any other permissions will be returned by this query as potential problem. Refer to this tip for more information about guest user account. SQL Server Authentication mode If this returns 0 the server uses both Windows and SQL Server security. If the value is 1 it is only setup for Windows Authentication. SELECT SERVERPROPERTY ('IsIntegratedSecurityOnly') Check this tip for different ways to check the SQL Server Authentication mode. SQL Server version There are many different ways to find the SQL Server version. Here are some of them: SELECT @@VERSION SELECT SERVERPROPERTY('ProductVersion') AS ProductVersion, SERVERPROPERTY('ProductLevel') AS ProductLevel The 'ProductLevel' property above will show Service Pack level as well (if it has been installed). EXEC master.sys.xp\_msver Check this tip for other ways to check the SQL Server version. Database users, permissions and application roles This will give a list of permissions for each user. -- list of the users EXEC sys.sp\_helpuser -- database permissions EXEC sys.sp\_helprotect -- roles membership EXEC sys.sp\_helprolemember -- list of the database application roles SELECT name FROM sys.database\_principals WHERE type = 'A' Refer to this tip for more information about permissions auditing. Location of Data and Log files Quickly find databases that use only one drive: SET NOCOUNT ON CREATE TABLE #db\_drives (db SYSNAME, drive\_count INT) EXEC master.sys.sp\_MSforeachdb 'INSERT INTO #db\_drives SELECT ''?'' AS DBName, COUNT (DISTINCT LEFT(physical\_name, CHARINDEX( ''\\'', physical\_name,0))) FROM \[?\].sys.database\_files' SELECT db AS DatabaseName FROM #db\_drives WHERE drive\_count = 1 AND DB\_ID(db) > 4 DROP TABLE #db\_drives Check data and log files drives for the current database ('DriveLetter' column in the query below): SELECT name, type\_desc, physical\_name, LEFT(physical\_name, CHARINDEX( '\\', physical\_name,0)) AS DriveLetter FROM sys.database\_files Check enabled Network Protocols The query below will show if the Named Pipes protocol is enabled on SQL Server instance: EXEC master.dbo.xp\_instance\_regread N'HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE', N'Software\\Microsoft\\MSSQLServer\\MSSQLServer\\SuperSocketNetLib\\Np', N'Enabled', @NamedPipesEnabled OUTPUT SELECT @NamedPipesEnabled AS NamedPipesEnabled Refer to this tip for more information about network protocols used by SQL Server. SQL Server Services Startup mode The easiest way which will allow you as well to incorporate this check to your SQL scripts is to do this as described in tip: SELECT \* FROM sys.dm\_server\_services Linked Servers and Linked Server Logins This will provide a list of linked server and the logins used for linked servers. -- list of remote/linked servers SELECT \* FROM sys.servers -- linked server logins EXEC master.sys.sp\_helplinkedsrvlogin Find logins without permissions This will find a list of logins that no permissions granted. These logins if are not used could then be removed. SET NOCOUNT ON CREATE TABLE #all\_users (db VARCHAR(70), sid VARBINARY(85), stat VARCHAR(50)) EXEC master.sys.sp\_msforeachdb 'INSERT INTO #all\_users SELECT ''?'', CONVERT(varbinary(85), sid) , CASE WHEN r.role\_principal\_id IS NULL AND p.major\_id IS NULL THEN ''no\_db\_permissions'' ELSE ''db\_user'' END FROM \[?\].sys.database\_principals u LEFT JOIN \[?\].sys.database\_permissions p ON u.principal\_id = p.grantee\_principal\_id AND p.permission\_name <> ''CONNECT'' LEFT JOIN \[?\].sys.database\_role\_members r ON u.principal\_id = r.member\_principal\_id WHERE u.SID IS NOT NULL AND u.type\_desc <> ''DATABASE\_ROLE''' IF EXISTS (SELECT l.name FROM sys.server\_principals l LEFT JOIN sys.server\_permissions p ON l.principal\_id = p.grantee\_principal\_id AND p.permission\_name <> 'CONNECT SQL' LEFT JOIN sys.server\_role\_members r ON l.principal\_id = r.member\_principal\_id LEFT JOIN #all\_users u ON l.sid= u.sid WHERE r.role\_principal\_id IS NULL AND l.type\_desc <> 'SERVER\_ROLE' AND p.major\_id IS NULL ) BEGIN SELECT DISTINCT l.name LoginName, l.type\_desc, l.is\_disabled, ISNULL(u.stat + ', but is user in ' + u.db +' DB', 'no\_db\_users') db\_perms, CASE WHEN p.major\_id IS NULL AND r.role\_principal\_id IS NULL THEN 'no\_srv\_permissions' ELSE 'na' END srv\_perms FROM sys.server\_principals l LEFT JOIN sys.server\_permissions p ON l.principal\_id = p.grantee\_principal\_id AND p.permission\_name <> 'CONNECT SQL' LEFT JOIN sys.server\_role\_members r ON l.principal\_id = r.member\_principal\_id LEFT JOIN #all\_users u ON l.sid= u.sid WHERE l.type\_desc <> 'SERVER\_ROLE' AND ((u.db IS NULL AND p.major\_id IS NULL AND r.role\_principal\_id IS NULL ) OR (u.stat = 'no\_db\_permissions' AND p.major\_id IS NULL AND r.role\_principal\_id IS NULL)) ORDER BY 1, 4 END DROP TABLE #all\_users The list returned by this query contains logins that should be reviewed and most likely have to be disabled or deleted: Review logins The last login in the list above still has user account in master database, but this user does not have any permissions on the database. This login could be deleted as well (after user's account deleted from the master database). Find broken database users on all databases (SQL logins mapping is broken) These users are known as orphaned users because the associated link between the login and user is broken. Refer this tip for more information and how to fix these. EXEC master.sys.sp\_msforeachdb ' print ''?'' EXEC \[?\].dbo.sp\_change\_users\_login ''report''' Find orphaned users in all of the databases (no logins exist for the database users) Make sure you ran the previous check and fixed SQL Server logins before running this check. SET NOCOUNT ON CREATE TABLE #orph\_users (db SYSNAME, username SYSNAME, type\_desc VARCHAR(30),type VARCHAR(30)) EXEC master.sys.sp\_msforeachdb 'INSERT INTO #orph\_users SELECT ''?'', u.name , u.type\_desc, u.type FROM \[?\].sys.database\_principals u LEFT JOIN \[?\].sys.server\_principals l ON u.sid = l.sid WHERE l.sid IS NULL AND u.type NOT IN (''A'', ''R'', ''C'') -- not a db./app. role or certificate AND u.principal\_id > 4 -- not dbo, guest or INFORMATION\_SCHEMA AND u.name NOT LIKE ''%DataCollector%'' AND u.name NOT LIKE ''mdw%'' -- not internal users in msdb or MDW databases' SELECT \* FROM #orph\_users DROP TABLE #orph\_users Validate logins (identify orphaned Windows logins) This check will show Windows logins that have been deleted from the server or Active Directory. Read more about this stored procedure in this tip. EXEC master.sys.sp\_validatelogins Backups verification report Check if a Full backup exists that is not older than 7 days, a Differential backup exists that is not older than 2 days or a Transaction Log backup exists that is not older than 1 day (you can change the number of days based on your requirements): SELECT m.name AS DatabaseName, DATABASEPROPERTYEX(m.name, 'Recovery') AS RecoveryMode, CASE WHEN ISNULL(MAX(b.backup\_finish\_date), GETDATE()-10000) < GETDATE()-7 AND b.\[type\] = 'D' THEN 'Problem!' WHEN ISNULL(MAX(b.backup\_finish\_date), GETDATE()-10000) < GETDATE()-2 AND b.\[type\] = 'I' THEN 'Problem!' WHEN ISNULL(MAX(b.backup\_finish\_date), GETDATE()-10000) < GETDATE()-1 AND b.\[type\] = 'L' THEN 'Problem!' ELSE 'OK' END AS BackupStatus, CASE WHEN b.\[type\] = 'D' THEN 'Full' WHEN b.\[type\] = 'I' THEN 'Differential' WHEN b.\[type\] = 'L' THEN 'Transaction Log' END AS BackupType, MAX(b.backup\_finish\_date) AS backup\_finish\_date FROM master.sys.databases m LEFT JOIN msdb.dbo.backupset b ON m.name = b.database\_name WHERE m.database\_id NOT IN (2,3) AND DATABASEPROPERTYEX(m.name, 'Updateability') <> 'READ\_ONLY' GROUP BY m.name, b.\[type\] HAVING ISNULL(MAX(b.backup\_finish\_date), GETDATE()-11) > GETDATE() - 10 OR MAX(b.backup\_finish\_date) IS NULL ORDER BY m.name, backup\_finish\_date You can also use the SSMS built-in report to review a database's backup and restore events: Navigate to the report Backup and Restore Report These scripts will be a good start for you to check your SQL Servers' security and settings. I provided scripts in SQL format for the most checks. This will allow you to put it all together and create your own report for all these checks.
